and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show i'm your host sam
dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and today we've got a
spicy episode for you i'm joined by
nicholas vandenberg nicholas has
successfully started and sold over three
tech companies with up to six five
employees
generating over 11 million in revenue
each he's the ceo and co-founder of the
company you've probably heard of chili
piper nicholas welcome to the show sir
how's it going
it's going great thanks for having me
no worries man really looking forward to
this one so we're we're jumping in with
a topic we're talking about why
marketing automation is dead
and why people powered marketing is well
and alive so first and foremost as i
like to do with most of my guests
nicholas let's chuck you in at the deep
end why is marketing automation dead i'm
sure a lot of marketers are going to be
tuning in thinking he's talking nonsense
um
what is marketing automation why is it
dying or dead
yeah
um
i have to be careful there because we we
do partner with max equivalent solution
with uh
you know
like marketo and adobe so i don't want
to offend anybody but but uh what i mean
to say that
the premise of marketing automation was
really about email
uh you know um
market
this generation of uh software
but the the
imperative
in their world was to capture an email
address and then send emails that person
right and you had all sorts of
sophisticated way to segment your base
to send different emails at different
times but it was basically
founded on the id that email was a great
way to educate people they call it
nurturing and the way to make it a
customer
and
the obvious thing is that uh you know we
we all have
an inbox full of emails that we'll never
read and typically these nurturing
emails are in this category right so so
this this kind of email actually no
longer works
um
there are many other ways for a
prospect to find information these days
and certainly receiving emails from a
vendor is not one of them
so
that's that's
very foundation of of a max information
is now
is no longer working
what uh
people do like you and me if you if you
need to um
if you need to procure a new on your
product or buy something new what you're
going to do is go online and ask your
friends right ask your network this is
two things you google it and you ask
your friends so this is the new world
you and it by friends in a broad term
you may not go to uh
your childhood friend when you need
something very sophisticated for your
business you're going to go to a network
where you expect these people but there
are so many communities now so many
slack channels so many uh
social networks that that you're going
to find information in a much better and
more reliable way and that's where
you're going to
look for this information
so this company called sixth sense
labeled that the dark phenol
and
as like to say there's actually nothing
dark about it because it's very
enjoyable to ask people who are
knowledgeable uh some recommendations
but from the vendor standpoint it's dark
because you you you should not play in
this uh at least
at first shot you do not play they're
asking around and so you you
you uh don't control what how people
find the information
yeah we'll get into chris walker's
favorite funnel shortly but before we do
um let's talk a bit more about kind of
traditional marketing automation
um
so a lot of companies especially kind of
larger scale b2b companies this might
even be their bread and butter you know
traditional methods like
giving out guides white papers tracking
their website clicks tracking user
activity account based marketing look at
databases getting the
i guess the top of funnel leads where
people have shown some kind of interest
whether it is a marketing guide video
they've clicked on a part of your
website we then track them we find out
who where their email is we send them a
sequence of emails over time saying hey
i've seen you download this guide email
too hey how are you getting on with the
guide here's some free tips and
resources email three hey book a demo
probably not quite that fast but that's
the general gist of it
i know a lot a heck of a lot of
companies still do that why why is that
becoming least effect um less effective
nicholas is it because people are just
bored of it they know what the process
is they know that if they're getting a
guide this email sequence is going to
follow and bore them to tears or is it
something else
yeah
the world has changed completely
things move a lot faster
there are multiple things at stake i
mentioned one of them that people are
going to look for information among the
networks no longer from the vendor
uh
the second piece is that people are not
going to read the email is going to end
up in your spam folder
and the third piece is that people make
decisions much faster so i'm going to
give you an example um
a couple of weeks ago
we finally found a great um
candidate to
set up our analytics at chili piper for
a long time we didn't depart with
analytics so the person comes on board
is a wonderful person i say okay now i
need to deploy a stack
for analytics so there's like six
procurement
decisions that need to be made in two
weeks right and what is a great way to
do a chili pepper we have this concept
called decision memo where we actually
write a google doc on on to make
decisions i i'll talk about that later
um
so we have six decision memos on
products we're going to buy and and as
ceo i review them and execute them right
so we've made six procurement things now
tell me if one of these vendors had
captured my email address and sent me an
email next week on saying hey
you like my white paper i said well
sorry i would but i already bought the
solution you know things get a lot
faster we buy a lot
many many more products if you look at
your iphone on the consumer world
the number of apps is astonishing right
when
you look at pages after pages of apps
and the same thing is true in the
business world there are many many more
solutions for
very specific problems
and as a result as a result we have to
because there's so many different
solutions to procure we have to make
this decision faster
and this idea that we're going to be
nurtured by by some vendor is a
completely antiquated it's it's um
it's a thing of the past
i would even argue that um so i was
reading the um
re-reading
the
uh what used to be the bible of
marketing which was the inbound
marketing by the founders of hubspot
they okay yeah about a decade ago
and the time it seems it seems so
forward-thinking it was all about
non-disruptive marketing so you would
not send email
actually not call people you would you
you'd produce content and people would
come to you read your content and then
you'd grab the email
um but if your content even content has
lost its effectiveness now we we still
do contact the chili pepper because
um
it's an important piece but it's
definitely a much smaller piece than it
was uh 10 years ago for that same reason
people i mean they may read your thing
but in in most cases they in a hurry
they're going to make a decision fast
and and the number one thing they're
going to do is go to their network and
ask around and and maybe read reviews
and rely on other people basically to
make that decision
yeah yeah
that's why we call it people-powered
marketing because
the information uh that used to come
from the vendor is now spread around
multiple type of people whether it's
what the written reviews on the network
on the slack channel and and that's
where you're going to get
that
information to make make your decision
yes so let's i guess break this down on
a bit more of a granular level nicholas
so let's say
let's say um
perhaps the company's listening in and i
think what we're we're doing these
nurture campaigns they're working just
fine we get the odd sales lead and
ourselves you have to do a lot of cold
calling they might be struggling a bit
but we're happy with what things are
going but since you've parked my ears
nicholas what what can we do what can we
do what can companies listening in or
watching in do to get started on people
power marketing and what are some of the
things that they perhaps need to
consider before and to get stuck into it
yeah so
we're in the process of doing that at
chili pepper actually because
uh i i think um
even though
arguably what i'm saying is obvious that
people have to make more decisions than
they rely on their networks um the
implications are not so obvious
because the implication that you now
need to influence all these people we're
going to talk to these prospects
and um
so you need to be much more focused on
on on communities much more focused on
influencers uh we have this concept
the bullseye strategy where we we we
identify where the most influential
people in our space and reach out to
them to make sure that they're aware of
existence
so we actually work with a
list of people so we have a list of
influencers the list of partners who can
influence we have own
customer advisory board
again that we rely upon to to be
influencers so we're now focusing much
more on these lists of people and
spending much more time uh
building relationship with with
these influencers we also spend more
time on uh reviews so for the longest
longest time we neglected reviews i must
say it was my one of my uh
mistakes i
was focused on building a great product
i didn't focus so much on
asking people to write about it it
turned out
obviously very important so you're
switching all your your focus on on
reaching out to
different circles of people and making
sure they're
aware of your existence we um
also
building our team around customer
marketing so when you have a happy
customer
then you want to take advantage of it so
okay
have them send you referrals have them
write reviews have them
you know maybe speak at an event
so do a lot more investment on your on
your
base
and
then base become the um
advocate for your product i guess
advocacy would be a good way to uh
to summarize um
how to think about it it's it's this is
no longer about you know sending out a
message it's about asking other people
to give the message so become your
advocates
yeah okay
interesting so
can i talk about perhaps why this works
and how it works
so a lot of this
isn't necessarily measurable in terms of
kind of when you mentioned um
kind of customers could potentially be
on slack channels um they could be in
groups they could be in
review sites and these kind of things um
why does this work because this is of
course vastly vastly different to the
the old approach of kind of finding
potential buyers and then nurturing over
time
why do you think it is nicholas that
this approach of um kind of
people-powered marketing hunting for
prospects and different groups slack
communities influencer channels etc why
is this strategy so much better
just because it matches
the new world and how people make their
decisions right so
i mean the number one thing
in marketing is i understand how people
make decisions and and try to influence
that process
and even that people you know
and now uh
asking around and and
relying on other people then that's
that's why as a marketer that's that's
where you have to be there's one thing
that you mentioned uh
it's a bit scary because you uh a very
hard time tracking it so it's very hard
to do attribution if i look at our
business uh so much of it we go into the
bucket of uh direct we call it direct
people came directly directly always
either directly or they are they or they
search on our name meaning that they
already wanted to come to our site
and so
you get this
vast majority of a business inbound
is directing which means that people
came to us but obviously they must have
heard about us right so
you know
it's not like one day they say
that
the
illumination that chili pepper exists so
um
it's hard to track
um the in the old days it was much
easier you know to
to see if
content was working because you were
able to to see that the person come from
a content piece of course from a search
piece
uh now they come direct and and and you
wonder how they got there so what we've
done actually prepared that we
made it part of our sales process that
we asked them afterwards how they heard
about us and try to track it back to
this
post post closing uh attribution or at
least post demo attribution
but the fact that it's harder because
it's non-attributable doesn't mean that
um
that's less effective it works the same
way it's just
less control level
but one of the key key component
of this new world is that when they come
to your website they are much more
educated than they used to be
so
the new imperative is what you call
straight to meeting
now they're on your website you want to
go straight to meeting you do not want
to capture an email address and chase
them because then you've lost about all
right by the time you send them the
nurturing email they've already bought
the competitor you want to go straight
to meetings so that's what we've built
that chili pepper our solution concierge
is um
integrate to his form and so when the
prospect submitter forms instead of
getting a page that say thank you
somebody's going to call you and then
wonder who's going to call me you get
immediately depend from submission
a bunch of slots
time slots you pick a time and one click
you've booked the time and you have a
meeting sign up with with a salesperson
that's completely critical we see our
companies our customers going from 40
conversion rates meaning uh from
100 people filling a form they used to
have only 40 40
of them getting a meeting range pipeline
to 80 so now they booked immediately
they could buy plants so you get twice
as much pipeline by by by automating
that process of going from form to
meeting uh
with with our solution and that's why
we think
i think that's why we're seeing so much
growth at chili piper is because
companies realize that uh they can't
afford anymore to to have this process
that takes time where they capture an
email from a form somebody follows up
with an email an sdr called the next day
let's just go you have to you have to go
fast you have to go for a much better
experience to the prospect
um and that means that the prospect has
to be
able to book a meeting instantly
sure
um it makes sense and i know
guys like chris walker over at fine labs
talks about the dark social a lot and
for anyone that's not heard of it i
guess in a poorly formed snapshot from
my understanding of it quite a lot of it
involves kind of getting
social ads organic social so
understanding where your buyers hang out
and so getting in front of them with
perhaps targeted social facebook insta
ads educating them
around your service your content filling
in the gap solving their problems so
when you do eventually need their help
their solution comes to mind and then
they'll probably go direct to you either
message you on linkedin or go straight
to your website um or likewise putting
out organic content on linkedin
educating your prospects filling in the
gaps solving their pain points being a
useful resource a trusted advisor so
when the time comes they actually need
your product or service you reach out to
them directly like i say in the dms or
straight straight to website
issue is
a lot of it's not true
or trackable um
yes
so
what would be your your response to that
nicholas so someone's thinking well this
all sounds well and good but i'm not
gonna be able to track any of it no
you're absolutely right that's the issue
is that it's not attributable you you
know you educate and educate and educate
and then when they come to you you don't
know why
um
so as i mentioned um
we do that we've made it part of our
sales process to always ask uh how they
heard about us and how they came so that
you have some kind of some kind of of
tracking some it's not as perfect as as
you would be from a utm parameter and
you know and
and
also
getting the results from advertising but
it's still a good proxy you can see if
things are working or things are not
working and uh trust me one of the
fascinating thing is that
we looked over time
at the number of visits that our
prospect um do on our website before
they book a demo right so
and when we started it was around seven
so that comes
seven times and then and then they
booked them
it's it's slightly north of two so they
come first they come they come back boom
their book
uh and it's not because our website is
better that they get it it's because now
we've educated in in
in the dark social and the dark
phenomenal and by the time they come
they're better educated because of
course we're much
uh bigger so we have the means to to to
to uh
to be present in all these other
channels and and and be there
but that's one way to track it right you
can tell if if you uh if your prospects
go from seven visits to demos to two of
these two demos then you know that
you're doing you're doing something
right same thing with the you know
conversion rate on visitors to a demo
request if you see the conversion rate
is going up you can see that which is
correlated to the metric i've just
mentioned
you can tell that that you've done some
something right about educating them
before they come to your website so
there are some metrics just the same
metrics and they're not as direct but
they're nonetheless uh significant
and the roots conversion is a funny one
right so for example just like you guys
well maybe a little bit similar on our
website recently because we run a lot of
different marketing campaigns we do a
lot of i post a lot of content on
linkedin we're running various ads
to to get people to our site to then
convert them into sales ops
we um we added the field how did you
hear about us so someone might put they
found us on google they found us for a
paid listing they listened to my podcast
and then sometimes someone will put one
option i'll always ask them on the call
i'll always say if i get on a call with
a sales lead i'll say how did you
stumble upon us and then you might say
something completely different to what
they put on the forum like they might
say like i followed you on the podcast
for a while then i looked at linkedin
then i went onto your website and looked
at some articles then a few months later
i decided to inquire because i needed
your help so it's always kind of worth
asking the question because the room is
quite often like they've educated
themselves for so long then they've
decided to get in touch
yeah you have to
asking in in the form i think is not
reliable because when you feel a form
you just want to be done with it you
know
you know what i mean you you decide you
want to engage with the company uh
you don't want to spend more time uh
around you just want to say get
me the meeting but once you're
talking like then you have time to say
oh let me think about it how i came
across and you can even
be more thoughtful about it like you
know and i saw an ad but i heard about
you before or my friend is using you
that's what we get a lot when we ask to
say
it's mostly somebody i know is using you
or a book to demo uh
with some of your customers and like the
experience
so so it's much more reliable
sure
the form okay so
for anyone that's perhaps
kind of tuning in and thinking i know
you shared some examples of of what you
some of the channels you use when it
comes to people powered marketing and
dark social is there any kind of
baseline channels let's say someone
tuning in as a b2b company perhaps they
have a monthly service they offer are
there any kind of baseline channels if
they're not doing yet that they should
get into that
yes the the
number one channel these days for b2b is
linkedin of course right so because i
think it it's funny because um
i remember the day when linkedin had no
content whatsoever it was just a
networking with connecting things and
they were started doing content and what
what are they doing this is crazy they
think of themselves as a media company
it makes no sense
and how wrong was i right because now
it's like we go on linkedin
i mean there's a lot of fun stuff on
linkedin it's like uh you know you start
that's how i do it i start
my morning when i wake up check facebook
and then i get to work i check linkedin
you know that's and all my news my
information is now linkedin so
um obviously that has become the number
one channel for b2e it's a place where
people influence one another and that's
where you want to be and
um
[Music]
and any b2b companies has to have a
strong presence on linkedin for sure
gotcha gotcha um
and on that note is
is people powered marketing is what
we've been talking about the only way
so should we still be doing should we
ditch all our
nurturing campaigns
should we perhaps focus less on
let's say bottom of the funnel stuff if
we're running kind of google ads and
things like sponsored ads or should we
try purely on focus purely and kind of
influencing people speeding up our cell
cycle or is it part of a let's say a
more holistic approach so just one more
tool to add to the armory
well the good thing with the all the
ways of doing thing is that it was very
measurable
right if you nurture you you we we can
tell how many of our
opportunities come from an email that
we've sent from a nurturing campaign we
can tell how much comes from a an ad
span
so
no harm in continuing uh but the great
news is that you can see if it's working
or not and i can tell you a chili pepper
we do all of it not when we don't do
much anymore because we found it was
close to useless uh of course we still
do ads
and and they work it's just not the bulk
of our revenues it's just a piece so
if things are continuing
to work then you want to continue doing
them
just don't expect them to build your
business because
at best there'll be a small piece of
your contributions
yeah makes sense and any final notes on
that nicholas just before we wrap up in
terms of anyone that wants to get stuck
into people-powered marketing
and so you're asking me failure yeah any
any final notes for anyone that wants to
get stuck into the process as we've
talked about today
yes i mean the the two components is uh
is
it it's ironic because it's gone into
one component that's very
hard to track this dark final piece
where you're trying to influence you're
going to talk to people now but then the
other piece is conversion right so when
they come your website you want to
conversion and that one is is very
controllable that's why you get some of
your website you make your form very
short ideally one one seal with things
like clear bit and
apollo and zoom info you can just do
data augmentation so you don't need to
ask people uh the site of the company
and all that you get it from the email
address so you can just have a very
simple form
and then go straight to meeting and
convert so the conversion piece is
completely under your control so let's
let's
be sure that uh
um
you spend as much
energy in educating the dark funnel as
you do into converting those will
finally come to your website are you
interested
i like it speed to lead indeed sir good
good note to end on
that's right we're actually actually we
we for the longest type of street we've
ever talked about speed to release vp
and finally
recently i said
speed to it is dead
because it's zero it should be instant
right the speed to reach should be
instant the lead comes please form your
book committing in real time so uh
something that's zero
is non-existent um i don't know it
should be it will should be called
instant to leader
instead of speed to lead so that that's
something
yeah
that's
a new campaign yeah
nice one nicholas well i really
appreciate you coming on enjoyed the
chat so thanks pleasure yeah same here
in your wisdom um if you enjoyed today's
episode all the show notes will be over
on business growth dot marketing
um nicholas do tell us more about how
people can learn from you how they can
connect with you and anything you'd like
to add
yeah of course they should come to our
website chilipeper and and experience
our instant
to lead right so we have a
um own product of course on our website
so you should come you'll book a demo in
in in just a few seconds and we'll be
able to talk to our team and we'll be
delighted to have you
it's chili piper some people um still
choose this color as chili pepper
but uh we're not selling uh
vegetables we uh it's a play on the
world so piper chili pepper
chili piper indeed we'll put those links
at businessgrowth.marketing nicholas
thank you once again and as always if
you enjoyed today's episode do hit that
subscribe button we interview business
leaders every week and we share
actionable marketing tips to grow your
business and to grow your revenue and
with that we should catch you on the
next one